Welcome to Languages of Data Science. After watching this video, you will be able to identify the criteria for determining
the language to learn, and list the roles involved in data science. For users who are just starting
on their data science journey, the range of available technical
options can be overwhelming. There are literally thousands of
different programming languages with their own strengths and weaknesses. So, which language should you learn first? The answer to that question
depends largely on your needs, the problems you are trying to solve,
and who you are solving them for. First and foremost, we recommend considering
the Python, R, and SQL languages. However, other languages such as Scala, Java, C++,
and Julia with specific features are also popular. JavaScript, PHP, Go, Ruby, and Visual Basic
all have their own unique use cases as well. The language you choose to learn
will depend on the things you need to accomplish and the problems you need to solve. The problems can be related
to the company you work for, what role you have, and the age of your existing application. So, what problems do you need to solve? We’ll have a better insight into the
answers to this question as we learn more about the popular languages
in the data science industry. There are many roles available for people who are
interested in getting involved in data science, and they include: Business Analyst, Database Engineer, Data Analyst, Data Engineer, Data Scientist, Research Scientist, Software Engineer, Statistician, Product Manager, Project Manager, and so on. In this video, you learned that you should select a language to
learn depending on your needs, the problems you are trying to solve,
and who you are solving them for. The popular languages are Python,
R, SQL, Scala, Java, C++, and Julia. JavaScript, PHP, Go, Ruby, and Visual Basic
all have their own unique use cases as well. The problems you need to solve
can be related to your company, role, and age of the existing application.